# Variable

In programming , we need to store and work with various kind of data.

The data is stored in memory, and when we want to 'lablel'  it as a peice of information  we call it a variable.

`A  variable is a symbolic name that is a reference or pointer to an object/value. Once an object/alue is assigned to a variable, you can refer to the object/value by that name.`

**A Simple Analogy**
- Think of a glass container, that you might use to store chocolates, lets put a sticker on it as ' chocolates'
- Here , the glass container is just like a memory space in your computer used to store data.
- Chocolates are the data stored in it.
- And the label Chocolates is the name given to that memory space ,which is a variable.
---
## Creating a variable in python
- Declare a lable to the memory location, which is called variable name
- Assign the value using equal sign (=) which is also called assignment operator.
- Give the required value i.e data we want to store in that variable.

**`variable-name = value`** 

---
## Variable Assignment

In Python, variables need not be declared or defined in advance, as is the case in many other programming languages. To create a variable, we just assign it a value and then start using it. Assignment is done with a single equals sign (=):

Lets say we want to save our name in a variable :

```python
name = "john"
print(name)
```
`output : john` 

>>In above example 'name' is a variable and 'john' is data / value we want to store in memory 

Later, if we change the value of variable and use it again, the new value will be substituted instead:

```python
name = "john" 
print(name)
name = "fabian"
print (name)
```

**output :**

`john` 

`fabian`
___
- ## Chain Assignment
Python also allows chained assignment, which makes it possible to assign the same value to several variables simultaneously :

```python
x=y=z=20
print(x,y,z)
```
`output : 20 20 20 `

- ## Multiple Assignment
We can also assign different values to multiple variables in chained fashion.

```python
x,y,z=10,20,30
print(x,y,z)
```
`output : 10 20 30`