# How Python Works

A we know that python is a programming language.

**There are `two` types of programming languages**
1. Compiled Language
2. Interpreted Language

## What is a Compiled Language ?

Compiled languages are convireted directly into `machine code` that the processor can execute.As a result , they tend to be faster and more efficient  to execute than Interpreted languages.

Compiled languages need a bulid step . We need to rebuild the program every time we make a change.

Examples of purly compiled laguages areC, C++, Rust,Go etc

## What is Interpreted Languge ?

In an interpreted language, the source code is not directly translated by the target machine. Instead, a different program, aka the interpreter, reads and executes the code.
Interpreters run through a program line by line and execute each command.
___
### Okay… but what does that actually mean?

Imagine you have a tea recipe that you want to make, but it's written in ancient Greek. 

There are two ways you, a non-ancient-Greek speaker, could follow its directions.

- The first is if someone had already translated it into English for you. You (and anyone else who can speak English) could read the English version of the recipe and make tea. Think of this translated recipe as the compiled version.

- The second way is if you have a friend who knows ancient Greek. When you're ready to make tea, your friend sits next to you and translates the recipe into English as you go, line by line. In this case, your friend is the interpreter for the interpreted version of the recipe.
---
## Advantages and disadvantages

1. ### Advantages of compiled languages
- Programs that are compiled into native machine code tend to be faster than interpreted code. This is because the process of translating code at run time adds to the overhead, and can cause the program to be slower overall.

2. ### Disadvantages of compiled languages
- Additional time needed to complete the entire compilation step before testing
- Platform dependence of the generated binary code
  
1. ### Advantages of interpreted languages
- Interpreted languages tend to be more flexible, and often offer features like dynamic typing and smaller program size.
- Also, because interpreters execute the source program code themselves, the code itself is platform independent.

2. ### Disadvantages of interpreted languages
- The most notable disadvantage is typical execution speed compared to compiled languages.
---

