# Running Python Program
There are different ways to run a python program or to create a python program.These Are as follows

###    1. The Python Interactive mode
###    2. Python Text Editor / Command Line       
###    3. Python IDE (Pycharm)
---
## 1. The Python Interactive mode
This is the most frequently used and easy way to run a Python code. Here basically we do the following:
    1. Open command prompt / terminal in your system
    2. Enter the command - python or python3 (based on python version installed in your system)
    3. If we see these : >>> then, we are into our python prompt. It will look something like this:   
       
`C:\Users\ushna>python
Python 3.9.2 (tags/v3.9.2:1a79785, Feb 19 2021, 13:44:55) [MSC v.1928 64 bit (AMD64)] on win32 Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information`

`>>>`

**Advantages of using interactive mode**
1. Best for testing every single line of code written.
2. In this approach, each line of code is evaluated and executed immediately as soon as we hit ↵ Enter.
3. Great deveopment tool for experimentation of Python code on the way.

**Disadvantages of using interactive mode**
1. The code is gone as soon as we close the terminal(or the interactive session)
2. Not user friendly way to write long code.

**Closing the interactive session**
1. Type quit() or exit()
2. Press ctrl + z and hit ↵ Enter for windows. For linux, we can press ctrl+d.
---
## 2. Using the Text Editor / Command Line
Follow the below steps to run a Python Code through command line -
    1. Write your Python code into any text editor.
    2. Save it with the extension .py into a suitable directory.
    3. Open the terminal or command prompt.
    4. Type python followed by the file name.py (e.g python my_program.py).

**Advantages**
1. We can save our program for future.
2. Easy to write large programs.

**Disadvantges**
1. Need to switch back and forth between text editor and command prompt / terminal to modify and execute our code respectively.
---
## 3. IDE
An integrated development environment (IDE) is software for building applications that combines common developer tools into a single graphical user interface (GUI).

An IDE typically contains a code editor, a compiler or interpreter, and a debugger, accessed through a single graphical user interface (GUI).

**IDE for python**

JetBrains s.r.o. is a Czech software development company probides the best IDE for python software
development called PyCharm.

**Downloading Pycharm**
1. Go to jetbrain's official website (https://www.jetbrains.com/).
2. Click on the developer tool in menu bar and then click on Pycharm , new page will be loaded.
3. Select your os(windows , mac and linux) and then select your edition of pychram(professional eddition is paid after one month of trail and community eddition is free. Profeesion eddition comes with lot more features).
4. After selecting the edition download the installer file.
5. Install the Software.

**Jupyter Notebook**

The Jupyter Notebook is an open-source web application that allowsprogrammers create and share documents that integrate live code, equations, computational output, visualizations, and other multimedia resources, along with explanatory text in a single document.

A Jupyter Notebook provides you with an easy-to-use, interactive  environment that doesn’t only work as an integrated development environment (IDE), but also as a presentation or educational tool. 


**Install the classic Jupyter Notebook with:**

```python
pip install notebook
```

**To run the notebook:**

```python
jupyter notebook
```

